---
layout: post
title: "Pre-work Part II: Breaking BASH"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt: "Let's learn about version control"
tags: [pre-work, bash]
image:
  feature: bg-1.jpg
date: 2015-07-21T14:44:47+09:00
share: true
---

##What is [Bash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash_(Unix_shell))?
Bash is a Unix shell used to interact with your operating system. It was created in 1989, making it 26 this year. What's with the funny name? It stands for **B**ourne-**a**gain **sh**ell. It's not a reference to Jason Bourne, but rather the Bourne Shell, a shell from 1977. It can do everything you can do with a GUI and more. You can copy files, create new folders (directories), search for files and search for information within files. You can also do all of this on other computers remotely from your computer.
**It can also delete everything on your computer. Don't type** `rm -rf` **, it will delete everything on your computer**

##Navigating in Bash
First off, open up Terminal. You'll see a black window with white text, or perhaps different colors. Point is it will be nearly empty aside from a prompt. This is the bash prompt. The prompt itself might be a `$` or perhaps something else. Type `pwd` this means **p**rint **w**orking **d**irectory. It will tell you where in the directory you are in the form of a path. Your path probably looks something like this `Users/NAME` where NAME represents your username. The `/` symbol seperates different levels of the path `Users/John/websites/Scarf/Home` is 5 levels. To navigate through the file structure using Bash we use `cd`, **c**hange **d**irectory and the location of where we want to go.

- `~`, called tilde, refers to your home directory.
- `.` shows where you are right now in the file system, your current directory.
- `..` brings you up a directory so if we're currently in `Users/John/websites/Scarf/Home` and we type `cd ..` now we're in `Users/John/websites/Scarf`.

###Getting Lost
Not sure what's in your current directory? We can type `ls` to **l**i**s**t the files and folders in our current directory. `ls` and `pwd` are great for figuring out where you are and what else is there with you if you ever get lost in the file structure.

###More about paths
There are two kinds of paths: **absolute paths** and **relative paths**. **Absolute paths** start with `/` and begin at the root of your system, the highest folder in the hierarchy of folders. **Relative paths** are paths relative to your current location and do not start with `/`.

##Bash Commands

- `touch` creates new files. For example, `touch newfile.html`
- `open` opens the file using the default program for that file type
- `cat` as in *concatenate* displays a files contents inside the command prompt.
- tab completion, it's incredibly useful. Hit tab to complete file names for example `cd g` *+ tab* would return `cd giantreallylongfilename` if that file existed in that particular directory.

###Flags
Flags are like modifiers. You can tack them onto a command and alter it slightly, they start with `-`. For example, you can add on the `l`, `a`, or `h` flags to `ls` (remember that means list) or all three together like this `ls -lah`. This command would list **a**ll information in a **h**uman readable format. It's the same as `ls -l -a -h` but much easier to type.

###Hidden Files
Now that we know about flags, we can learn about hidden files. They start with `.` and you need to use the `-a` flag to see them.

###Piping
Piping is really fascinating. You can use it to send the output of one command into another. For example `ls | head -3` will run the `ls` command to list all the files in a directory. However, the output of `ls` is being directed into `head -3` so only the first 3 results will display.